- "The reason for postures in the martial arts, is to facilitate transformations (...) Forms contain fixed postures, but in actual practice there are no fixed postures. When applied they become fluid, but still maintain their structural characteristics." - Tang Shunzhi (1507–1560)
- "The Chinese martial art is a multifaceted system of physical and mental self-cultivation that has diverse applications, from health and well-being to theatrical performance, from competitive sport to religious self-cultivation, from self-defense to armed rebellion. It is this versatility that has accounted for the tradition’s vitality in the face of dramatically changing social and political conditions. The martial arts’ unique combination of military, therapeutic, and religious goals has made them attractive to the young and the old, women and men, rebels and scholars, the affluent and the needy, in diverse societies around the globe." - Meir Sahar in "The Shaolin Monastery: History, Religion, and the Chinese Martial Arts"
- "During the Ming period, the various hand combat styles were all one-sided, specializing in actual fighting only. By contrast, Qing quan styles emphasized diverse training, creating a particularly thorough synthesis with the methods of daoyin and yangsheng ('nourishing the vital principle'). This integration was motivated by a double-purpose: Firstly, it added efficacy to the bare-handed fighting methods; secondly, it strengthened the body, preventing and curing disease. (...) The Qing widespread integration of daoyin training and martial practice demonstrates that the recognition of daoyin’s efficacy became more common. Daoyin transformed the popular martial arts in terms of contents, methods of training, and goals. The martial arts were no longer fighting methods only. They were transformed, rather, into a physical activity that is variously practiced, that enhances both skill and strength, and that is efficacious in curing and preventing illness. Evidently, by Qing times the martial arts evolved into a completely unique method of physical education." - Lin Boyuan, "Zhongguo tiyu shi", about the seventeenth-century Ming-Qing transition
